When we think of ICICI LBARD Health Insurance Company, the
first picture that comes to mind is that of the
Elevate Plan.  But this has just happened.  Even
before this, there were some such plans
of ICICI LBRD which became quite popular.  So
in today's video I am going to tell you about the
top five health insurance plans of ICICI LBD.
What is their USP?  Are there features that
make them special?  So that you do
not have the choice of only the latest plan.
You can choose the ideal plan as per your needs.
And not only this, at the end of this video we will
also discuss
how ICICI LBRD is performing as a health insurance company.  Is
this reliable or
not?  So what are you waiting for?  Let's quickly
start this video.  The first plan
is ICICI LBRD's Elevate plan which has
four Infinite USBs.  The first is Infinite Sum
Insured.  This means you
can choose unlimited sum insured.  The second is
Infinite Reset, which
offers unlimited restoration.  Third is
infinite claim.
You can stretch any one claim up to an unlimited amount during the life of the policy.
And the fourth one is
infinite cumulative bonus.  In which
you will keep getting 100% cumulative bonus on every renewal
irrespective of claims and there
is no maximum capping on it.  But the
list of special features doesn't end there.
Apart from this, you also get the add-on of Jump Start
in which you can get coverage of Asthma, BP,
Diabetes and Obesity
only after 30 days.  That means no
waiting period will be applicable on these.
Apart from this, you will get many add-ons
in the Elevate plan which
makes it very flexible.  Along with this, they
also work to provide you with the coverage of your choice.  For
example, if you want to take maternity coverage, then
maternity can be covered after two years under the Elevate plan.  It
is necessary for both the parents to be covered in the policy for these two years.  Another good thing about maternity coverage is
that pre and post natal expenses
are also covered.  This means you can also cover the
listed expenses for a few days before pregnancy and after delivery.
Newborn baby is also covered.
If any complication occurs after the birth of the child,
it can also be
covered under this plan.
You will have to take maternity add-on.
The age limit for females i.e. mothers for maternity add on is
18 to 50
years.  You can avail maternity coverage within this age band.
Along with new born coverage, vaccination is also covered in it.
But the most important thing you have to keep in
mind is that you
must compare the cost to benefit.  Because nowadays there are
many plans that
offer maternity.  But the
amount charged from you in exchange for the coverage is very high.
So, after making this comparison, you should choose this add-on.  The
ICIC Labard Elevate plan takes
flexibility a step further.
When it also modifies your waiting periods.  This
means that you cannot reduce the
waiting period only due to your pre-existing disease.
Apart from this, the
waiting period for specific diseases,
waiting period for maternity coverage or waiting period for worldwide coverage which
you take as an add-on can
also be reduced.  That means
you can take coverage whenever you want.  But
you will have to pay extra money.  The second plan of ICC LBD
is Max Protect.  It is
also known as 1 crore plan.  That is,
if you need a higher sum insured, you
want coverage worth crores
in your policy, then this plan can be good for you
because the minimum sum insured is only ₹1
crore.  You can take coverage up to a maximum of ₹10 crore.  It is
possible that the
company may also give you the option of unlimited.
You get two variants in this.  The
standard variant is called Classic
and the extended variant is called
Premium.  The basic coverage in these is
almost the same.  This means coverage of
modern treatments
without any capping,
coverage of organ transplant,
90 and 180 days of pre and post hospitalization in both variants of your plan.
Apart from this, you will also get the benefit of domiciliary hospitalization and
unlimited reset i.e. unlimited
restoration
in the standard plan.  But if you choose the
premium variant which is the
higher variant of this plan.  So in that you will get Claim
Protector which is the consumable benefit of this plan.
Air ambulance
coverage will be available.  Apart from this, home care
treatment is also included in the premium variant.
If we talk about the difference from the classic variant,
you get three more extra features which include annual health
checkup.  That means you can get health checkups done once a year.
Second Medical
Opinion for Critical Illnesses i.e.
for listed serious illnesses,
you will be able to get second opinion from a panel doctor
in the premium plan.  And the final difference
is world wide coverage.  That means if
you need coverage outside Indian geographical limits,
you will get that too in the premium plan.   The
ICIC LBD Max Protect plan is a high sum
insured plan and the company claims
that it will be available at a reasonable premium.
So it becomes our responsibility to
check this reasoning also.  Now here
I have taken the family size of two adults
whose age is 38 and 35 years.  There is a
dependent child whose age is less than 20 years.
If this family needs a premium of Rs 1 crore
for one year through Max
Protect Plan, then they will have to pay
Rs 41732
annually.  So now you can easily decide or judge
whether the premium is reasonable or
not.  The third popular plan of ICICI LBD is
Activate Booster.  This is the super top up plan of this company.  This
means that you either have
existing coverage or your medical
expenses are very high.  You
live in a big city.  When you need a policy with higher sum insured.
But if you want to pay less premium
then you can also take super top up plan.
Apart from this, your family
size is very big.  You need extended coverage in
addition to the base policy or you have a
major existing condition that you
want higher coverage for.  There is a
history of any critical illness in the family.
Whatever the reason, when you want to increase
your coverage of your sum insured over and above your base policy, a
super top up plan is the
best way to do it.  And the Activate
Booster Plan gives you the same coverage in ICICI LBD.
Let us know what are its special
features.  Firstly, you
get flexible sum insured options
from ₹1 lakh to ₹3 crore.  And if we talk about
deductible, that is,
after what amount in the whole year the coverage of this plan will
start, then that option is minimum ₹3
lakh to maximum ₹20 lakh.  There
are a total of two variants within the Activate Booster plan.
Plan A and Plan B.  There is a
slight difference in the standard coverage and benefits of both the plans,
which you
can compare as per your need.  But
I noticed two most important things inside the Activate Booster plan.  First of all, the
entire country has been divided into four zones.
But there is
no zone based copayment in the plan.  And what's even more
special is that you can convert your Super Top-up
plan into a base policy in the future.
How is that?  If you have
purchased the Activate Booster Plan before the age of 50 years and you renew it continuously, then
between 55 and 65 years of age
you can decide to remove the deductible.  You
can remove the deductible and convert this super top
up plan into a base policy as well.
You can choose your favorite variant from Plan A and Plan B.
But apart from this, there are some add-ons which
you should not ignore.  If any of these
is necessary then you can add that also.
As I told you about Jump Start, it will
give you coverage for Asthma, Diabetes, Hypertension and Obesity after 30 days i.e. from the 31st day as soon as you
buy the policy.  If necessary, you can add it.
Apart from this, there is an add-on of air ambulance.  If
you think a big claim might come,
you might
want to reduce the waiting period a bit.  So that add on
is also available in it.  You can also reduce the waiting period for your pre-existing
diseases or specific diseases
through add-ons.
And most importantly, the Claim Protector adds
coverage for non-medical items i.e. consumables
to your policy.  You
can also get this through add on.  When you
compare Plan A and Plan B of Activate Booster,
you will find that Plan B has slightly
less coverage.  But there are some features
which you will get only in Plan B.  For
example, you will get the facility of annual health checkup
in Plan B.
You can also avail the benefit of nursing at home in Plan B.  Apart from this,
you will also get the feature of compassionate visit within Plan B.
These three benefits are not available in Plan A.
If you want to take a
base policy and super
top-up plan from the same health insurance company, then the next
plan has been designed by ICIC LBA keeping this in mind.  The
name of this plan is
Activate Booster Combo.  That means here
you get the base plan ICICI LBAD Elevate,
with that you can combine Activate Booster and
get coverage of both.  You can modify the
add-ons, features and coverages of the ICC LBAD Elevate plan as per
your requirement.
And after that, you can
also provide super top up coverage of Activate Booster in it.
If you already have the Elevate plan
and at the time of renewal you get a
call from the insurance company that they will
increase your base coverage of ₹10 or ₹1 lakh to ₹1 crore at a very low premium,
then they
do this only with the ICICI LBRD Activate Booster Combo plan.   Should
you buy the super top-up plan and base policy
from the same company or from different companies
?  What are its pros and cons?
What are the advantages and disadvantages?  A video on this has
already been released, the link of which I am
giving in the description of this video.
You can also check that out after watching this video.
So if you need a base policy and a
super top-up policy from ICICI Bank,
then Activate Booster Combo is the
perfect plan.  The fifth and final plan is
Health Advantage.  And its variant is
Apex Plus.  I loved the era of these plans.  At
the time these plans were launched,
they were easy to understand
with comprehensive coverage, reasonable premiums and no
confusion regarding add-ons like in Health
Advantage Plan, you get
single private AC room and
any room limit as per the sum insured.
Apart from this, there
is no capping on modern treatments.  There are sufficient pre and post
hospital expenses.  Organ donor
coverage is available.  There is ambulance coverage.
Whatever you need,
you will get coverage under these plans.  There is a loyalty bonus of 20%.  The
sum
insured will increase by 20% whenever you renew.  And
this cumulative bonus will not be reduced due to empty claims.
You can also avail maternity coverage in this plan.
If the age of the female insured
is between 18 to 45 years then only and the
maternity sum insured is also sufficient.
Maternity expenses can be claimed up to 10% of your sum insured.
And not only this, coverage of newborn baby
is also included in it and
vaccinations of the newborn baby will also be covered.  There is
not much confusion or hassle with add ons.
You get only three or four add-ons.
Like you want to take lump sum benefit for critical illness.  If you
want to add lump sum coverage for personal accident, you can do so.
Apart from this, there
is a claim protector add-on for consumables.  BFifit is their OPD
rider and if the premium has increased too much
then you can also choose 10 to 20% copayment.
That's why I like the plans in this category the
most because they are
easy to understand, offer complete coverage, and the
premiums are also reasonable.  Now
you understand the top five health insurance plans of ICICI LBD
and you also know
which plan you should compare or
buy as per your needs.  Now let's talk about
how ICICI LBRD is performing as a health insurance company,
we will know that
through important data.  First is the claim
settlement ratio.
How many claims out of every 100 does this company settle?   The
latest record we have of this is the IRDA
Annual Report for 2023-24.  The
claim settlement ratio of this company is 82%.  Is this
good?  No.  If a company has at least 90% claim
settlement ratio, you
can say that its intentions to settle claims are
good.  The efficiency
is good and it is able to handle the claims well
as there are many companies
which also have above 90 claim settlement
ratio.  The second metric comes in the
Incurred Claims Ratio.  Incurred Claim Ratio
refers to the time when health insurance companies
take money from us as policy premiums
and give it back to us in the form of claims.
What is its ratio?  How much money did he
take and how much did he return in return.
So the incurred claim ratio of the health insurance segment of ICICI LBD
is 78.  Is this good?  Yes, this
is absolutely good.  Out of every ₹100
taken from you as premium, claims worth ₹78 were paid.
If it is too high, above 90%, then it is
not good for the financial condition of the insurance company
and if it goes below 60%, below 50%, then it
is not good for the policy holders
because then the company is keeping most of the money with itself.
Now let's talk about complaints,
that is, how many complaints are there from the policy holders,
that figure is in favor of IC Lombard.
ICICI Labrador has less than half the complaints than the industry average.  That means
complaints from policy holders are very less.
And finally let's talk about cashless hospitals.  That
means wherever you go for treatment,
you will not have to pay any money in advance.  So All Over
India 9400 Cashless Network Hospitals
are in the list of ICIC Labard.  But the company
claims to be cashless everywhere.  This means you
can go anywhere and get cashless treatment.
But that process is a little different.
We will talk about the number of hospitals currently on their panel,
which is 9400.  I feel
that if there is a list of 10-11000 hospitals
then it could be quite good.  But
if there are sufficient cashless hospitals and network hospitals in your city,
then you will not have any problem with this figure.
Now friends, let us finally talk about
how ICICI LBAD Health Insurance Company handles the claims of its policy holders
?  How does she deal?  That is, if it
is strict or lenient, then I would say
this company is very strict.  That means when
they see any doubt or confusion, they
investigate it very deeply.  So this
may be unpleasant for those policy holders who have
some confusion or lack clarity regarding coverage or claims.
And it is good for those policy holders
who want the health insurance
company to detect fraud claims, fake claims
and
save them from unnecessary premiums.  This means that it is very important for the health insurance
company to be strict, be it in
underwriting or claim process.
Because data shows
that almost 15 to 20% of claims are
fraud and fake claims.  And the entire
burden of this falls on the policy holders.  So, if we
look at it, this
is a good thing for all the policy holders but
when we individually face such investigations in genuine claims,
we may
feel bad.  In today's video,
which plan did you find the best among these five plus and in the next video,
which company's top plans do you
want to know about, want to understand them
, please tell me this by commenting.   The
biggest pain point of health insurance policies
is their continuously increasing
premium, which means they are becoming expensive.
If you want to know
why health insurance is becoming so expensive then
you must watch this video once.
This information is very important.
I, Harvinder Singh, now take your permission.   I
will meet you in the next video.  Till then
take care stay fit and stay healthy.  Jai
Hind.